#summary Description of the jusText boilerplate cleaning algorithm.

== Introduction ==

The algorithm uses a simple way of segmentation. The contents of some HTML tags
are (by default) visually formatted as blocks by Web browsers. The idea is to
form textual blocks by splitting the HTML page on these tags.
The full list of the used block-level tags includes: BLOCKQUOTE, CAPTION,
CENTER, COL, COLGROUP, DD, DIV, DL, DT, FIELDSET, FORM, H1, H2, H3, H4, H5, H6,
LEGEND, LI, OPTGROUP, OPTION, P, PRE, TABLE, TD, TEXTAREA, TFOOT, TH, THEAD, TR,
UL. A sequence of two or more BR tags also separates blocks. 

Though some of such blocks contain a mixture of good and boilerplate content, this is fairly rare. Most blocks are homogeneous in this respect.

Several observations can be made about such blocks:

 # Short blocks which contain a link are almost always boilerplate.
 # Any blocks which contain many links are almost always boilerplate.
 # Long blocks which contain grammatical text are almost always good whereas all other long block are almost always boilerplate.
 # Both good (main content) and boilerplate blocks tend to create clusters, i.e. a boilerplate block is usually surrounded by other boilerplate blocks and vice versa.

Deciding whether a text is grammatical or not may be tricky, but a simple
heuristic can be used based on the volume of function words (stop words). While
a grammatical text will typically contain a certain proportion of function words,
few function words will be present in boilerplate content such as lists and
enumerations.

The key idea of the algorithm is that long blocks and some short blocks can be
classified with very high confidence. All the other short blocks can then be
classified by looking at the surrounding blocks.

== Preprocessing ==

In the preprocessing stage, the contents of `<header>`, `<style>` and `<script>` tags are
removed. The contents of `<select>` tags are immediately labeled as bad (boilerplate). 
The same applies to blocks containing a copyright symbol (©).

== Context-free classification ==

After the segmentation and preprocessing, context-free classification is
executed which assigns each block to one of four classes:

 * _bad_ -- boilerplate blocks
 * _good_ -- main content blocks
 * _short_ -- too short to make a reliable decision about the class
 * _near-good_ -- somewhere in-between short and good

The classification is done by the following algorithm:
{{{
if link_density > MAX_LINK_DENSITY:
    return 'bad'

# short blocks
if word_count < LENGTH_LOW:
    if link_density > 0:
        return 'bad'
    else:
        return 'short'

# medium and long blocks
if stopwords_density > STOPWORDS_HIGH:
    if word_count > LENGTH_HIGH:
        return 'good'
    else:
        return 'near-good'
if stopwords_density > STOPWORDS_LOW:
    return 'near-good'
else:
    return 'bad'
}}}


The word count is the number of space-separated items and the link density is defined
as the proportion of
tokens inside `<a>` tags. The stop words
density is simply the proportion of stop list words.

The algorithm takes two integers `LENGHT_LOW` and `LENGTH_HIGH` and three floating
point numbers `MAX_LINK_DENSITY`, `STOPWORDS_LOW` and `STOPWORDS_HIGH` as
parameters. The former two set the thresholds for dividing the blocks by tokens
count into short, medium-size and long. The latter two divide the blocks by the
stop words density into low, medium and high. The default settings are:

 * `MAX_LINK_DENSITY` = 0.2
 * `LENGTH_LOW` = 10
 * `LENGTH_HIGH` = 30
 * `STOPWORDS_LOW` = 0.30 
 * `STOPWORDS_HIGH` = 0.32

These values give good results with respect to creating textual resources for corpora.
They have been determined by performing a number of experiments.

The assignment of classes for the medium and long blocks is summarised in the following table:

|| *block size (word count)* || *stopwords density* || *class* ||
|| medium-size || low || bad ||
|| long  || low || bad ||
|| medium-size || medium || near-good ||
|| long ||  medium ||  near-good ||
|| medium-size || high || near-good ||
|| long  || high || good ||

== Context-sensitive classification ==

The goal of the context-sensitive part of the algorithm is to re-classify the
_short_ and _near-good_ blocks either as _good_ or _bad_ based on the classes of the
surrounding blocks. The blocks already classified as _good_ or _bad_ serve as base
stones in this stage. Their classification is considered reliable and is never
changed.

The pre-classified blocks can be viewed as sequences of _short_ and _near-good_
blocks delimited with _good_ and _bad_ blocks. Each such sequence can be surrounded
by two _good_ blocks, two _bad_ blocks or by a _good_ block at one side and a _bad_
block at the other. The former two cases are handled easily. All blocks in the
sequence are classified as _good_ or _bad_ respectively. In the latter case, a
_near-good_  block closest to the _bad_ block serves as a delimiter of the _good_ and
_bad_ area. All blocks between the _bad_ block and the _near-good_ block are
classified as _bad_. All the others are classified as _good_. If all the blocks in
the sequence are _short_ (there is no _near-good_ block) they are all classified as
_bad_. This is illustrated on the following example:

FIXME! Add image.

The idea behind the context-sensitive classification is that boilerplate blocks
are typically surrounded by other boilerplate blocks and vice versa. The
_near-good_ blocks usually contain useful corpus data if they occur close to _good_
blocks. The _short_ blocks are typically only useful if they are surrounded by
_good_ blocks from both sides. They may, for instance, be a part of a dialogue
where each utterance is formatted as a single block. While discarding them may
not constitute a loss of significant amount of data, losing the context for the
remaining nearby blocks could be a problem.

In the description of the context-sensitive classification, one special case has
been intentionally omitted in order to keep it reasonably simple. A sequence of
_short_ and _near-good_ blocks may as well occur at the beginning or at the end of
the document. This case is handled as if the edges of the documents were _bad_
blocks as the main content is typically located in the middle of the document
and the boilerplate near the borders.